Egusi Soup
4.7
(49)
35 Reviews
6 Photos
Egusi soup is native to West Africa, and many of my American and Nigerian friends enjoy this recipe when I make it. Ground egusi seeds give the soup a unique flavor. It’s a delicious and hearty soup for those who like to try something different every once in a while.

Submitted by Karena  Updated on September 22, 2026
 Tested by Allrecipes Test Kitchen

Save

Rate
Print

Share
looking down at a bowl of egusi soup
Add Photo



6

Prep Time:
15 mins
Cook Time:
1 hr 5 mins
Total Time:
1 hr 20 mins
Servings:
6
Jump to Nutrition Facts

Why You’ll Love This Recipe
This West African soup with beef and shrimp features ground pumpkin seeds for a unique, nutty taste.
Home cooks love how easily this recipe adapts to different meats, seafood, or seasonings.
Allrecipes member Sharon Carey shares, “I have a Nigerian friend ... he said it was awesome!”

Keep Screen Awake
Ingredients

1/2x

1x

2x

Original recipe (1X) yields 6 servings

¾ cup egusi seeds or pumpkin seeds

1 ½ pounds cubed beef stew meat

salt to taste

½ cup peanut oil

2 large tomatoes, chopped

1 small onion, chopped

2 habanero peppers, seeded and minced

2 pounds fresh shrimp, peeled and deveined

18 ounces tomato sauce

1 ½ cups water

3 tablespoons tomato paste

1 pound fresh spinach, washed and chopped

Directions
Place seeds in a blender; blend until mixture is powdery, 30 to 40 seconds. Set aside.

an overhead shot of blended pumpkin seeds in a glass bowl
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Cut beef into bite-sized cubes; season with salt.

an overhead shot of beef cubes seasoned with salt in glass bowl
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Heat peanut oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Cook beef in hot oil, stirring occasionally, until brown but not cooked through, 3 to 5 minutes.

an overhead shot of beef cubes cooking in a pot
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Meanwhile, place tomatoes, onion, and peppers in a blender; blend until smooth, about 30 seconds. Stir tomato mixture into beef in the pot; reduce heat to medium-low and cover. Cook until meat is tender, 40 to 50 minutes.

an overhead shot of tomato mixture added to cooked beef in a pot
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Add shrimp, tomato sauce, water, and tomato paste; simmer for 10 minutes.

an overhead shot of shrimp, tomato sauce, water, and tomato paste added to pot
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Stir in spinach and powdered seeds. Continue simmering for 10 more minutes.

an overhead shot of spinach and powdered pumpkin seeds added to pot
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Cook’s Note
If you can’t find egusi seeds, you can substitute pumpkin seeds.

You can use any combination of crab, shrimp, and smoked fish in place of the shrimp.

You can use drained smoked oysters and chicken in place of the beef.

Nutrition Facts (per serving)
758
Calories
51g
Fat
17g
Carbs
60g
Protein
